---
layout: docs
title: "Android"
category: ven
date: 2018-11-19 16:55:00
order: 1
---

#### Prerequisites
In order to execute tests on Android devices marathon will need Android SDK
installed. Devices are expected to be connected to local machine by any means
supported by the adb (local usb connection, local emulator or TCP/IP).

#### Vendor specific options
To indicate that you're using a vendor config for android you have to specify
the *type* in the root of the *Marathonfile* configuration as following:

```yaml
vendorConfiguration:
  type: "Android"
  additional_option1: ...
  additional_option2: ...
```

#### Required options
##### Android SDK path
If you're using gradle plugin or CLI with ```ANDROID_HOME``` environment
variable then this option is automatically detected. If this is not the case
then you have to specify this option manually.

Marathonfile example:
```yaml
androidSdk: "/usr/share/local/android"
```

##### Application APK path
If you're using gradle plugin then this option is automatically detected. If this is not the case
then you have to specify this option manually.

```yaml
applicationApk: "app/build/outputs/apk/debug/app-debug.apk"
```

##### Test application APK path
If you're using gradle plugin then this option is automatically detected. If this is not the case
then you have to specify this option manually.

```yaml
testApplicationApk: "app/build/outputs/apk/androidTest/debug/app-debug.apk"
```

#### Optional
##### Automatic granting of permissions
This option will grant all runtime permissions during the installation of the
application. This works like the option ```-g``` for [```adb install```][2] command.

```yaml
autoGrantPermission: true
```

##### ADB initialisation timeout
This option will allow you to increase/decrease the default adb init timeout of 30
seconds.

```yaml
adbInitTimeoutMillis: 60000
```

##### Device serial number
This option allows to customise how marathon assigns a serial number to devices.
Possible values are ```automatic```, ```marathon_property```, ```boot_property```, ```hostname```, ```ddms```

```yaml
serialStrategy: "automatic"
```

##### Install options
By default these will be ```-g -r``` (```-r``` prior to marshmallow). You can specify additional options to append to the default ones.

```yaml
installOptions: "-d"
```

##### Preferable recorder type
By default device will record a video if it is supported. If on the other hand you want to force screenshots for example you can specify this as follows:

```yaml
preferableRecorderType: "screenshot"
```

[1]: https://developer.android.com/studio/
[2]: https://developer.android.com/studio/command-line/adb#issuingcommands
